[music playing]
NARRATOR: When the moon is
full in North Alabama.
When clouds pursue their own
agenda, gobbling up sky as if
they owned it, dark nights get
darker and strange things are
known to happen.
Balls of light appear and
disappear, floating orbs flip
among the trees, and
serene pastures
become killing fields.
Farmer David McClendon knows.
To him, the lights in the sky
aren't a casual diversion.
McClendon's means are modest,
his profit margins slim, so
when one of his calves is
silently butchered in the
night, just yards away from his
bedroom, he's more than
curious about the culprit.
-I called the DeKalb Sheriff's
Department.
They come out here.
It's here.
They looked at the calf
approximately three to five
minutes and told me that it
was a predator kill, even
though there wasn't no
footprints or no sign of blood
on the ground.
I questioned him
about it again.
He told be to bury the calf
and forget about it.
NARRATOR: A predator.
A predator capable of leaving
no tracks or signs.
A predator which cuts the
victimized animal with
surgical precision, excising
internal organs, even bones,
without spilling any blood.
A predator which can bring down
a healthy calf or even an
800 pound bull, but leave no
indications of a struggle.
-I don't think they wanna
confront whoever or whatever's
doing this.
I think they're scared,
or they ain't got
no answer for it.
NARRATOR: Who or what sliced up
David McClendon's calf, as
well as dozens of animals
owned by his neighbors?
Who or what is responsible for
the eerie but beautiful
impressions left in crop
fields the world over.
Why are thousands of people now
regurgitating incredible,
disturbingly identical memories
of encounters with
something alien?
The UFO mystery used
to be much simpler.
Lights in the sky.
Now you see them,
now you don't.
But in the past few years, the
questions have deepened.
Something profound appears to
be happening to our planet.
Something related to
an alien presence.
Today, the search for UFO
evidence takes us into
increasingly bizarre realms.
[music playing]
NARRATOR: Sand Mountain,
Alabama, is an ancient and
mysterious place.
This was sacred ground to
the Cherokee Nation.
It was here that Chief Sequoia
wrote the Cherokee alphabet,
inspired, they say, by
spirits and visions.
The Cherokee are gone, but
the spirits remain.
Tiny Fyffe, Alabama, population
1,600, as down home
as a town can get.
A dry county community of
farmers with one stoplight,
one department store, but
more UFO sightings
than any 10 big cities.
In 1989, Fyffe was the hub of
an international UFO furor,
with more per capita saucer
sightings than any other place
in the world.
Among those who witnessed UFOs
was police chief Junior
Garmany and most of his
officers, along with nearly
everyone else in town.
-I would say at least 75%, and
it could go as high as 90% of
the people in this are
have seen something
that they can't explain.
NARRATOR: Newspaperman Baker may
have ink in his veins, but
it's not the type of
ink used to publish
nonsense of ghost stories.
That's not the sort
of journalism the
people of Fyffe expect.
Baker prints what people
here know to be true.
Something strange has been
flying over Fyffe for
a long, long time.
Baker's wife captured photos
of one of the odd lights
dancing above the horizon.
Over the years, Alabama cameras
have produced many
other photos and videos.
-As far back as memory seems
to go around here, our
grandfathers, my wife's
grandfather had a sighting of
what he described as a
cigar shape back when
he was a young man.
Yeah, all kinds of
different shapes.
From cigar shapes to classic
flying saucer shape, to lights
in the sky.
NARRATOR: The 1989 UFO flap
drew hordes of skeptical,
scoffing reporters, who
ridiculed residents as hicks
and bumpkins, leaving emotional
scars which are
still evident.
-We don't talk to
nobody about it.
NARRATOR: Now the reporters are
back in force, drawn not
only by the latest wave of UFO
sightings, but also by what
appears to be a related and
gruesome UFO side effect.
-That's a good waste
of beef, isn't it?
-Yeah, it is.
NARRATOR: Police officer Ted
Oliphant has made this same
macabre walk more than 30 times
in six months, in cow
pastures all over
DeKalb County.
Someone or something has been
slicing up cattle, leaving
behind bloated hunks of
rotting beef steak.
-One of the things you're
looking at is, like,
the large oval cut.
And back over this way on the
side there, that flat line cut
there, there's just
no way that that
was done by a predator--
NARRATOR: That's right.
When they do something, an
animal does, they tear
everything, and that
wasn't torn.
That's cut straight.
NARRATOR: The victimized farmer,
who was also a part
time school teacher, doesn't
want his name used, but freely
states that he doesn't buy the
story told by the first law
men to arrive on the scene.
Predators didn't do this
to his animal.
-The trachea had been
cut, neat in--
neat into.
And animals don't cut things.
They tear things.
The slab of meat off the back
had been cut neatly.
No tracks.
It hadn't rained in a couple
days, but if anybody got in
here with a vehicle, they'd have
to come through my yard.
And I've got dogs that
bark, and they would
bark quite a bit.
And no vehicle come
through my yard.
NARRATOR: A few miles away and
a few days earlier, Jimmy and
Margaret Pope had looked out
their dining room window and
make their own grisly
discovery.
One of their cows had been
chopped up in bizarre fashion
within spitting distance
of their back door.
-Her side was cut out, and it
was just like it was just
sliced off clean.
And there was no
blood anywhere.
And then there was like a four
inch round circle off of her
shoulder, and then there was a
cut starting in the center of
her mouth, and it went all the
way around into an oval shape
and her teeth were gone.
And there were no
blood anyway.
The ground was just--
JIMMY POPE (OFFSCREEN):
It was really wet.
MAGARET POPE (OFFSCREEN):
Undisturbed.
JIMMY POPE (OFFSCREEN):
Wet too.
At that time there had
been  lot of rain.
And there should have been
some-- you know, should have
been some kind of a struggle
or something.
MAGARET POPE (OFFSCREEN): There
was no sign of struggle
or anything.
The ground, I mean,
it was just--
There was nothing
on the ground.
No blood, no tracks, nothing.
-His cow had had its
rectum cut out,
sexual organs removed.
It had a strange protrusion
here.
There's an incision
along the belly.
NARRATOR: Ted Oliphant's
photo album is a
far cry from typical.
No pictures of the family.
No vacation snapshots.
Just row after row of mutilated
animals, a monstrous
morgue of tortured bovines, and
Oliphant knows them all.
-Stranger than that was the
incision we found on the face
of the animal on its right jaw,
a large, oval incision,
jaw stripped clean to the
bone, and the tongue was
removed, cut out deep
in the throat.
We always find pretty much the
same thing with the animals.
If it's a female cow, the sex
organs and the colon have been
cored out, almost like you take
a stove pipe and shoved
it in there and cored out
the material there.
Many times, milk sacks, the
udders are completely missing.
Jaws have been stripped
to the bone.
Tongues have been removed,
individual
ears have been removed.
Various organs have
been removed.
The heart, male sex organs.
We've ruled out predator animals
doing this at this
point because the majority of
the wounds we've found on the
animals aren't really wounds.
They're incisions.
They've been done either
with a knife or
something much different.
NARRATOR: Oliphant's insistence
that creditors
predators could not be
responsible for the cattle
killings has made him
unpopular with rival
investigators, most of whom
seem to just want
this mess to go away.
-It's really making people angry
because they can't find
out what's going on.
The Sheriff's Department has
made the statement that
mutilations are not going on,
that they're not happening
here, but the Sheriff's carrying
pictures around of
cows that have been mutilated.
But they're--
The PR people are telling us
that nothing's going on.
NARRATOR: When the sun dips
below the giant saguaros of
Southern Arizona's harsh desert,
silent death awakens
and goes in search of prey.
No one can say how many animals
have been slaughtered,
because most ranchers,
especially those Native
American ranchers who live
on the reservations, are
reluctant to talk about it.
-Yeah, there's been a number
of rabbits, deer, one horse
that I know of.
Mostly cattle.
There's been a case or two,
George, where there have been
some domestic pets
have been found
mutilated in the same way.
And some of the answers they've
come up with here is,
oh, it's obviously predators.
Well, look.
Predators won't even
touch the animal
after it's been mutilated.
NARRATOR: Bob Dean, a former
military intelligence staffer
who spent 14 years with the Pima
County Sheriff's Office
has been waging a lonely
campaign against what he views
as sheer stupidity.
Unlike their Alabama
counterparts, Arizona
investigators have all but ruled
out predators as being
responsible for the animal
mutilations, including the
deaths of 50 cattle in
one six month period.
Here, the designated mutilator
is none other than Satan
himself, or rather his
disciples, scalpel wielding
Beelzebubs in search of animal
parts for use in unspeakable
ceremonies.
At least that's the story the
newspapers have picked up on.
Dean has accompanied
investigators to several
mutilation sites and says the
officers have confided that
devil worshippers could
not be responsible for
this strange harvest.
-He says, you can forget that.
He says, we've been
involved with this
thing for a long time.
He says, we know
the satanists.
We actually know who they are.
We know their MO.
We followed them.
I could go and point three
or four of them out
to you right now.
And he says, they're not
involved in this.
He says, when they go on a scene
or they do something,
it's as clear as it can be.
He says, I'm asking you to
consider here that this is an
800 pound animal.
There's no sign of a struggle.
There's no tracks.
There's no markings
of any kind.
There's no blood
in the animal.
on the ground.
How can someone get this 800
pound animal just to lay down?
NARRATOR: We contacted Arizona
agriculture officials who told
us that they had consulted cult
experts and had found no
evidence that devil worshippers
might be
responsible for the
mutilations.
In fact, toxicology and other
tests conducted on the
carcasses failed to even
determine a cause of death in
any of the animals.
What they did confirm is that
Arizona ranchers are angry.
Angry enough to take
the law into their
own hands if necessary.
-The animal mutilation mystery
started back in 1967, and that
first animal was a horse that
was found stripped of flesh
from the neck up in
southern Colorado.
And even then, the newspaper
headlines in the United States
and worldwide were, did
a UFO zap this horse.
NARRATOR: Journalist Linda Howe
has been studying the
mutilation mystery for
more than a decade.
In case after case, state
after state, witnesses,
including law men, report a
correlation between animal
mutilations and UFO activity.
-As I researched more and more
in the story, I heard from
ranchers , from law enforcement,
from sheriffs,
from even fellow journalists,
one amazing
UFO story after another.
And most people said, I'll tell
you off the record, but
they did not want to commit
themselves to being on
television talking about seeing
a football field orange
glowing light over a pasture
where one of these animals was
found mutilated.
NARRATOR: In Arizona as in
Alabama, the mutilations have
been accompanied by increased
UFO activity.
-Ladies and gentlemen, thanks
for showing up.
This is UFOAZ Talks.
NARRATOR: Ted Loman the hosts
a weekly UFO TV talk show in
Tuscon, and has become an
unofficial clearinghouse for
UFO sighting reports.
He too notices a correlation
between lights in the sky and
death on the ground.
-I think there's a lot of
it, and there's always
been a lot of it.
Tuscon has always
known about it.
NARRATOR: In Fyffe, Ted Oliphant
struggles to convince
his colleagues the predators
can't do what's being done.
In Tucson, Bob Dean finds
himself in the strange
position of defending the
reputation of satanic cults.
Both have suspicions, but
neither have solid answers.
We'll return to their stories
later in the program.
[music playing]
-I don't think they're here to
swoop down on our supermarkets
and take us over, and I also
don't think they're here to
tell us how to clean up the
environment and take care of
the garbage, and those are
the two kinds of rather
simple-minded versions that
we're getting all the time.
It's far more complicated
than that.
NARRATOR: New York City artist,
author, and lecturer
Budd Hopkins knows he's bitten
off a big chunk.
As usual, he finds himself in
the unenviable position of
trying to convince an audience
that space aliens are not only
real, they're here, and on a
fairly regular and widespread
basis, they enter people's
homes, float them out through
a window or wall into a waiting
spaceship, conduct
invasive medical procedures, and
then return the victims to
their beds with little or no
memories of these unthinkable
encounters.
It's a tall order.
-When people talk about wanting
physical evidence in
abduction, they really
mean one thing.
I want to see a spacecraft or
a big hunk of a spacecraft.
I want to walk up to it and see
it, or at least I want to
see an alien sitting there, or
a dead alien or something.
That's what they want, which
is almost like saying about
some other issue, for instance,
did Adolf Hitler
commit suicide in Berlin.
I want to have been there to see
him shoot himself, and I
want to see that little
burnt mustache, and a
body, and so forth.
NARRATOR: Hopkins is, by far,
the most experienced and best
known abduction researcher
in the world.
Abduction guru, his critics
call him, a
guy out to sell books.
A courageous pioneer, his
supporters retort, who is
dragging the scientific
community, kicking and
screaming, into the
21st century.
Hopkins has sold books,
no question.
Lots of them.
And his lack of scientific
credentials certainly opens
him up to bitter criticism
from those with
degrees on the wall.
But, if he's a money grubbing
messiah, he is among the most
reluctant on record.
-Nobody wants this to be real.
Everybody requires it to be on
some kind of shelf in the
mind, this really can't
be going on.
Even I feel that need.
And I think human resistance to
this is so powerful that it
cannot be underestimated.
Nobody wants this to be true.
NARRATOR: Resistance to the
possibility of alien
abductions has been nearly
universal among scientists and
mental health professionals,
most of whom haven't studied
the data whatsoever.
But it's been a godsend to
thousands, perhaps millions of
confused people concerned
about their sanity.
In a town outside Nashville,
Tennessee, a family man named
Herman is relating some of the
unbelievable experiences he's
had since childhood.
Experiences which didn't make
sense until he read about the
abduction syndrome.
-Earliest memories, it seemed
like, when I was a kid in
kindergarten, that all the
other kids made fun of me
because when they were sitting
there drawing pictures of
cars, I was drawing pictures of
spaceships and saying that
I was talking to the kids and
my friends and telling them
that by the time that
I died of old age,
that they would be--
be people from other planets
living here on the Earth.
They all laughed at me and
everything, called me crazy,
and so I just eventually, after
a few years of school of
ridicule, I just withdrawed into
myself and didn't talk to
anybody else about it.
From about time that I was 13,
a lot of things started
happening about then.
The last thing I really remember
is running into a
light, a bright light shining
on the ground.
And the next thing I remember
is, I'm standing in front of
my dad's house, which was still
about another mile away,
I'd missed about an hour to an
hour and a half of time.
And the next morning when I got
up, I noticed little stars
on each arm, and they looked
like a little pizza cutter had
been rolled down my
arm and pulled out
little plugs of skin.
-And then I walked back to here
and there was this little
man standing right there.
Right there by where you
are, pretty much.
Right there.
But he was really short and he
had on, like, a silver suit.
I think it was like a
dark, silver suit,
maybe grayish suit.
And he had a really
large head.
He was only like to here.
NARRATOR: Nancy Anderson of
Las Vegas has conscious
memories of several encounters
with alien beings.
She also has other telltale
signs of abduction
experiences, including periods
of missing time, unexplained
marks and scars, and memories
of physical contact with
terrifying entities.
-When I woke up and that
gray was across my
knees, I was so scared.
I've never been that scared
in my entire life.
And I tried to move or scream,
and I couldn't.
I just couldn't.
I really tried to fight him,
and I couldn't do any--
nothing would come out.
I was just, like, paralyzed.
He wasn't very heavy on me.
He probably weighed about
45 or 50 pounds.
He wasn't very heavy.
NARRATOR: Elke Emmons can't
remember what happened to her.
All she knows is that she
watched a UFO land behind her
home in Michigan.
The rest is a blank.
-It just gradually settled down
in the field, and at that
point, I panicked and I shut
off all the lights.
And I went upstairs and I hid
in the corner the bedroom.
And, as I told you, I sat there
for what seemed to be no
more than a minute or two, and
then I woke up in the morning.
I obviously lost the time,
because I don't know how I got
in bed in the morning, and
I lost the whole night.
NARRATOR: Missing time is the
phrase coined by Budd Hopkins
to describe the memory
lapses reported by
3/4 of alleged abductees.
It is but one of the common
denominators reported by so
many people all over the world,
people who don't know
each other and who have nothing
to gain by relating
their stories.
-The scope of it is enormous.
I have had police officers
who are abductees
who've come to me.
I've had housewives.
I've had two people who
are well known in the
entertainment field
who are abductees.
I've had, as I mentioned,
psychiatrists who are
abductees, psychologists,
doctors, nurses, lawyers.
A full colonel in an important
position in the army recently
came to me about his
experiences.
This is a completely cross
cultural phenomenon.
It gets into every socioeconomic
area.
NARRATOR: The only things all of
these people have in common
are their recollections of these
unbelievable encounters
and their desire
to understand.
For the most part, they haven't
received much help
from science or the mental
health profession.
Such critics as Carl Sagan
have dismissed abduction
reports as hallucinations,
fantasies, hoaxes, or the
result of psychiatric traumas
brought on by
childhood sexual abuse.
There's only one problem with
these various explanations.
None of them fit the facts.
-The cliche image is, well,
a psychiatrist could
explain this away.
But the psychiatrists themselves
are saying, in
fact, we can't explain
them away.
In fact, this is extraordinarily
interesting
and important.
And I think that little by
little, more and more people,
as they have come into first
hand contact with this
material, are realizing that
they're up against, at this
point, what may be the
most important
event in human history.
NARRATOR: Gaining acceptance
and assistance from science
and medicine has proven a rugged
challenge, but change
is in the air.
More on that in a few minutes.
-Oh, now tell us about the
last time when you were
abducted, the very last time.
NARRATOR: If talk radio really
is the last bastion of direct
democracy, then what is
the public trying to
tell us about UFOs?
Nationally syndicated hosts like
Billy Goodman know that
the UFO topic, in all of
its forms, is a staple.
It is raised night after night,
year after year by
audience members.
While most other media can't or
won't address the subject,
talk radio revels in it.
-And what was your encounter
like, may I ask?
MAN (OFFSCREEN): Several
disk-shaped objects flew above
my house, hovered, maneuvered
in various manners.
NARRATOR: Hovering disks are
somewhat passe these days.
Radio shows, TV tabloids, and
popular books have repeatedly
covered this ground.
But it almost seems as if
the phenomenon itself
wants to up the ante.
In the '40s and '50s, UFOs were
little more than elusive
lights in the sky, a
popular curiosity.
This, for example, is regarded
by some as the first modern
era UFO photo, taken in
1947 over Seattle.
In the 1960s, the lights
started landing.
Credible witnesses such as New
Mexico police officer Lonnia
Zamora risked their reputations
by reporting what
they had seen.
Several thousand landing site
cases have since been
documented.
It was also in the '60s that
the first cases of alleged
alien abduction gained
prominence.
Betty and Barney Hills' lives
were turned upside down by
their seemingly incredulous
account.
They weren't really the
first, and they
certainly weren't the last.
In the '70s, burgeoning
abduction reports bubbled to a
surface, suddenly crowded by
equally bizarre phenomena.
Animal mutilations temporarily
centered in the American West,
and inexplicable inexplicable
crop
formations focused in Britain.
Similar formations appeared
in the ice of
frozen lakes in Russia.
UFO sightings were linked to all
of the above by witnesses
and researchers.
The '80s and the '90s
have seen the
stakes raised once again.
Reports of abductions have
escalated, mutilations abound
on a worldwide scale, and crop
formations have progressed
from simple circles to intricate
designs on every
continent, as if someone is
trying to tell us something.
-You've got the people to say
that they're aliens from space
trying to tell us something.
But then someone else says,
well, if they're trying to
talk to us, they aren't
doing a very good job.
NARRATOR: Scientist Dudley was
drawn into crop formation
research when someone asked
him to take a look at some
soil samples from an
English field.
-Yes.
What we found a were short,
half-lifed elements that could
only be produced by high
energy physics.
These elements were not the
typical elements you find in
hospital waste or even from
nuclear reactors.
They're the kind of elements you
would find if you were to
bombard soil with some high
energy protons or deuterons.
NARRATOR: Dudley, along with
scores of other scientists and
researchers, ended up in England
during crop circle
season, although the term circle
doesn't do justice to
the shapes exhibited
by unseen artists.
Just when observers would
boastfully announce that they
had figured out the physics
the formations, the rules
would change, almost as if
someone was listening.
-There is every indication
that there is very high
intelligence behind this.
There's lots of other things.
For example, all the different
dimensions of crop circles end
up falling into the diatonic
scale of music.
The diatonic scale, these
ratios do not show up in
nature at all.
They only show up
psychologically in music scales.
NARRATOR: Without question,
some of the
formations were hoaxed.
Two English barflies named Doug
and Dave emerged for the
media and claimed credit for
creating all of the English
formations, a woefully specious
claim considering the
sheer number, size, and
complexity of some designs,
many of which appeared
in other countries.
Naturally, reporters
bought it.
A subsequent cash prize contest
produced a spirited
crop circle competition, which
was all the press needed.
If some agroglyphs could be
faked, then all must be fakes.
This was and is the prevailing
media attitude, akin to saying
that, if some $20 bills can be
counterfeited, then all 20s
must be funny money.
-Wheat stalks themselves, in a
real crop circle, one that's
formed by whatever this energy
force is, the wheat stocks are
bent over at right angles.
They're not harmed at all.
They continue growing, and it's
as if an energy force
field were impinging on the
wheat stalks to form these
very complicated symbols.
It's like a cosmic artist
is at work here.
NARRATOR: Dr. O'Leary and other
researchers refused to
accept the easy explanation,
because too much of the
emerging evidence suggested
otherwise.
When the formations were
simple circles, a few
scientists insisted they were
created by wind vortices,
mini-tornadoes.
Others theorized that rooting
hedgehogs were
the nocturnal artistes.
Those explanations were left
gasping for air when the
phenomenon evolved from
interesting circles into huge,
cryptic agroglyphs Could
wind do this?
Could even the Picasso of
hedgehogs envision such a
masterwork?
-About half of us at a
particular moment saw little
red darting lights in the wheat
fields near where some
of the crop circles
already existed.
And these are commonly
reported phenomena.
-Balls of light, absolutely,
definitely.
I have a couple of interviews
that I've taken on tape in
England where I've interviewed
people that saw balls of
orange light that appeared over
areas where these circles
formed that night.
From the descriptions that I
have heard, they've all been
pretty consistent.
75 to 80 foot diameter,
dish-shaped.
Classical flying saucer, if
you want to call it that.
NARRATOR: Correlation is not
proof positive, but UFOs are
seen over ranching
communities.
Mutilated animals
are then found.
UFOs are spotted by selective
witnesses.
Abduction memories emerge.
UFOs are recorded above
ripened grain fields,
agroglyphs appear.
Something is happening.
For scientists like Marshall
Dudley, the evidence is clear
and abundant.
Whatever is creating the crop
formations has the knowledge
and ability to tinker with
chemistry, genetics,
fundamental physics.
A tall order for brain
crunching hoaxsters.
-If you look at the areas where
this wilting is taking
place, you'll see
recrystallization, and it
indicates that there has been
some elevated temperatures.
The DNA has been blown apart,
to a large extent.
This is done through a
electrophoresis-type situation.
INTERVIEWER (OFFSCREEN):
You can't do this just
by stepping on it?
-No, you can't do it
by stomping it.
And the other thing is that if
you tried to sprout the seeds
that you would find that there
was a great number of
mutations, which ties right
into the DNA damage.
NARRATOR: Crop formations are
only one manifestation of the
higher stakes.
Sightings, landings,
abductions,
mutilations, messages.
Is someone trying to
tell us something?
And if so, what is it?
-This--
This shift involves recognition
that we're utterly
not in control of the universe,
that there are
intelligences that are far
greater than our own, that the
whole universe is itself
intelligent.
This is a change in our sense of
the universe and ourselves,
which is far more radical than
any shift that I can recall,
and it is terrifying.
-We have all grown
up being told or
taught that we are alone.
We're alone on the planet, we're
alone in the galaxy.
And I think that this story that
is emerging is showing us
that that's not true.
We are not alone.
That there are alien life forms
who are coming here.
They are involved with our
animal life, our plant life,
with us as a human species.
[mooing]
NARRATOR: If the cattle of
north Alabama seem a bit
standoffish these days, consider
what's been happening
to some of their kindred
cud chewers.
Between October 1992 and June
1993, close to 40 cattle in
two counties were somehow
immobilized, selectively
sliced up, and left to rot.
Since many farmers decide to
bury the evidence without
filing reports, the true number
of cases could be twice
as high, and because the
mutilation coincided with UFO
sightings, clever headline
writers dubbed the killings
close encounters of
the herd kind.
-Are you a suspect?
-I better be, because if I'm
not a suspect, they're not
doing their job.
NARRATOR: The irony
isn't lost on
police officer Ted Oliphant.
He became the point man in the
cattle mutilation probe almost
by default, then found himself
among the suspects.
Media accounts, spurred in part
by tips from rival law
men, gleefully revealed that
Oliphant once produced a video
documentary about UFOs before
he became a cop.
He's never said that UFOs might
be responsible for the
cow killings, but Oliphant
certainly alienated other
agencies by insisting that their
predator explanation
didn't cut it.
-Right now, we have no
explanation for who or what is
doing these things
to these animals.
We've got no suspects, we've got
no evidence other than the
carcasses that are
left behind.
We've got no eye witnesses,
and we have absolutely no
motive for why people
would be doing this.
NARRATOR: Other investigators
belittled Oliphant work and
his background, but he had
no such problems with the
farmers, especially those
who'd been victimized.
David McClendon felt insulted
when Sheriff's deputies told
him his calf had been killed
by a predator.
So, instead of burying the
carcass as he was told, he
piled it into his pick up and
took it to Oliphant, who
quickly pointed out the
unnatural incision pattern.
-Stair step-type incision along
one of the cut lines.
It's just jagged
stair step all.
Each step was approximately the
same, you know, size and
everything, much like
stair steps.
NARRATOR: The same sort of odd
cuts have been reported in the
hundreds of other mutilation
incidents.
Since the phenomenon first
gained national attention in
the mid '60s with the slaughter
of a horse in
Colorado, mutilation cases have
been reported in nearly
every state and dozens
of foreign countries.
Cattle are the primary victims,
but many other
animals have also
been targeted.
In Britain, an outbreak
of horse slayings
has shocked the public.
In Canada, domestic cats
have been dissected.
David McClendon's so-called
stair step incisions, also
known as cookie cutter or
pinking shear cuts have become
all too familiar to
investigators around the
country.
-The cuts that were made up the
legs, on the inside of the
legs, and up the belly look like
you could have taken a
zipper and zipped the cow right
back together again.
And they were 1/8 serrated cuts
were made on the cow.
We cut down into the animal and
found out that the ball
joint was gone, completely
gone, off just in one
shoulder, and just a perfectly
flat cut inside.
NARRATOR: In many other cases,
the phantom surgeons used
straight lines, scalpel-sharp
cuts, and in others, the
cutters rely on something
akin to a laser.
-The tissue had been cooked,
subjected to high heat.
The blood had been cooked.
There were basophilia changes
that could only occur in the
presence of maybe 300, 350
degrees Fahrenheit.
Well, since 1989, we now have
over a dozen animals that have
fallen to the category of these
mysterious mutilations
in which there's evidence that
high heat was applied to the
incisions that automatically
eliminates predator.
NARRATOR: Even more chilling, in
a handful of instances, the
killers managed to cut
between the cells of
the animal's tissue.
-Some of the cuts, from whatever
use they're using,
whether it's laser or
what, literally
go between the cells.
Now, we have no technology
that I know of
that can even do that.
NARRATOR: If we don't have such
technology, who does?
[music playing]
MAN (OFFSCREEN): It looks like
they were sealed at the time
of cut, which would lead you
to believe that it possibly
could have been a laser.
NARRATOR: The unnerving
experience of finding a cow in
this condition prompted many
Alabama farmers to start
packing guns.
Adding to the tension were
frequent appearances of
unmarked helicopters before and
after mutilation incidents.
David McClendon saw one of the
mystery choppers hovering over
his property after the
death of his calf.
-We'd been home probably an hour
before it ever happened,
so we knew right when
it got here.
INTERVIEWER: You grabbed
the hand gun.
I mean, what would
you have done?
-I'd have shot.
I don't believe anybody's got
any business, you know, in a
helicopter hovering
over my pasture.
-Most people hear helicopters
and it's close to
high tension wires.
And high tension wires are just
right over there about 75
yards from here.
I'd hate for somebody to be
flying around a helicopter and
have to land in the yard right
now, 'cause it wouldn't take
off without the police
being out here.
NARRATOR: The connection between
unknown helicopters
and mutilation episodes all
across the country has been
studied for several years by
independent investigators like
Texan Tom Adams, and even
by the US Senate.
No one knows where the choppers
are from or who is
flying them.
Ted Oliphant suspects that,
whoever they are, they're
monitoring the mutilations
just like he is.
-Who they are, I really don't
know, but on the ground,
before and after mutilations
have been
discovered by people.
In some cases, it almost seems
like we've been in a race with
the helicopters to see
who can get to the
animal's carcass first.
NARRATOR: In the spring of
1993, rival investigators
tried to put a lid on the
situation by urging victimized
ranchers to keep quiet.
Oliphant responded by calling
a news conference.
Facing a phalanx of journalists,
he introduced,
one by one, victimized farmers
who weren't buying the
predator story.
-It's a pretty slap in the
taxpayers' face when we report
anything like this to law
enforcement officials and they
come out and walk around the
animal and say, well, a
predator's done it, which
I know better than that.
NARRATOR: Oliphant
also released two
independent lab reports.
One showed evidence that a high
heat instrument was used
to cut up one cow.
Another analyzed and odd white
chemical found on a carcass,
an unnatural compound
which could serve as
a cauterizing agent.
State and county investigators
listened to the news
conference, but declined to
defend their predator
hypothesis.
-I can't--
can't make a comment.
In Alabama, as elsewhere, no
one has been able to crack
this riddle.
Suspects include the military,
big industry, the TVA, as well
as cults and predators.
The evidence suggests that
whoever is behind it in
Alabama and around the
world is very cagey.
-We're talking about tens,
literally tens of thousands of
cases, nationally
and worldwide.
No one's ever been arrested,
nobody's ever been prosecuted,
no charges have ever
been brought
against anybody for this.
No one's ever been caught.
NARRATOR: Journalist Linda
Howe insists that we must
follow the evidence, no
matter where it leads.
The correlation between
mutilations and UFOs is
indisputable.
Everywhere there's one,
there's the other.
More importantly, there are only
a handful of instances in
which witnesses say they've seen
mutilations in progress.
Their descriptions seemingly
defy all logic.
-You have to look to what
human testimony
comes over 25 years.
Eye witnesses who say that
they've seen these small, gray
creatures with these big black
eyes either carrying an animal
that's found mutilated or taking
an animal into some
kind of craft.
It is an alien harvest.
-I think you've got to come
to a conclusion that we're
dealing with an extremely high
technology that may be so far
beyond anything we can do here
that the only answer I can
come up with is there's some
alien involvement.
And some of the eye witnesses
have supported that view, that
they have seen mysterious
ships, they have seen
mysterious, non-human
entities.
NARRATOR: One final disturbing
note about the mutilations,
namely, the genetic similarity
between cattle and humans.
People and cattle share nearly
identical chromosomes.
In addition, cows' blood is so
like ours that it's used to
produce human plasma.
This raises the eerie
possibility that whoever is
chopping up cows is studying
them in order
to learn about us.
NARRATOR: One is being called
Zoosh, and he's just, like,
from everywhere.
But the [inaudible]
is one from Zeta Reticuli.
I like working with him.
NARRATOR: Robert Shapiro is a
practitioner of the new age
discipline known as channeling,
in which alien or
spirit entities speak to the
rest of us through mediums.
-All right.
[inaudible]
speaking.
[inaudible].
I will respond to questions.
NARRATOR: Most people,
especially scientists, don't
give much credence
to channeling.
Anyone who talks with
aliens on a regular
basis must have a problem.
It was the same back in the
1950s with the first of the
so-called contactees.
People like George Adamski, who
claim to have taken rides
on space ships with Venusians.
To the scientific community,
it's all one big mixed bag of
specious claims, and that bag
includes modern abduction
reports, which remain
controversial even to UFO
circles.
-And there are people who will
swear on a stack of bibles
that it's true.
Well, I don't know if it's true
or not, but the evidence
in support of it is terribly,
terribly weak.
-My problem with the whole way
abductions are studied is that
the hypnosis, very often,
hypnosis is used by people who
are not trained to do that.
-Somewhere between 25% 35% or
whatever of all the abduction
cases are remembered
without hypnosis.
And every abduction case,
virtually, people remember
pieces of it without hypnosis.
NARRATOR: Hopkins, perhaps more
than any other person,
has risked all, including his
personal life and his health,
in order to convince the world
to sit up and take notice of
abduction reports.
Finally, his efforts appear
to be paying off.
-The thing that makes the UFO
abduction phenomenon so
powerful in that shift
is that it kind of
gets us where we live.
It enters the physical world,
it appears to be in the
physical world, but once
having found us in the
physical world, it then drags us
out of the physical world.
So it is--
It's like tailor made to shatter
the arrogance of the
Western world view.
NARRATOR: Harvard psychiatrist
John Mack has taken
considerable heat from his
colleagues because of his
interest in abduction cases,
but he's not deterred.
Mack recognizes that many
scientists simply refuse to
believe abductions are
real, no matter what.
-There's a huge amount of
physical evidence of what's
going on in the abduction UFO
world, but there has to be
some openness of the receiver
to that evidence.
It requires, as one Harvard said
that, well, one of the--
I have to have a cigarette
lighter that was
dropped from a UFO.
Well, probably they gave up
smoking hundreds of thousands
of years ago anyway, but that
kind of physical requirement.
It's exactly that mentality
that this
is shifting us beyond.
NARRATOR: Dr. Mack's entrance
into the abduction debate
makes it much tougher for
science to dismiss the subject
without looking at the data
first, though scientists who
do investigate are often
amazed at the scope and
similarity of abductee tales.
-There were beings around me.
They were little, short beings,
but fairly chubby and
heavy on the beings.
And there was about four
or five of them.
And they were busy doing
different things as I was
laying on the table.
NARRATOR: Mary has had similar
experiences most of her life,
so have other members
of her family.
Therein lies the central
pattern of
the abduction scenario.
It begins during childhood,
continues for decades, and
seems to follow entire
families.
-What I remember is just, like,
the bruises and stuff.
And I always remember waking
up thinking that I'd been
somewhere but not knowing
where I had been.
But I remember seeing
flying saucers.
NARRATOR: Anderson has had a
lifetime of UFO sightings,
abduction experiences, missing
time, and unexplained scars.
The same was true of her
mother and is now
true for her daughter.
-The basic patterns are so
narrowly similar, over and
over and over again, that they
simply preclude human fantasy
as having been the cause.
-There's a very strong physical
component to this
data that a person who is
abducted actually is missing
from their normal environment
during the abduction
experience and that people
have multiple abductions.
There are people abducted
together at the same time who
confirm each other's
abductions.
And some of those people
may not be
abducted themselves even.
And we have independent people
who see other people being
abducted, and their scars.
MAN (OFFSCREEN): [inaudible]
marks.
-Right.
Scars on people's bodies and
all sorts of other things.
And any theory to--
to-- that explains the abduction
phenomenon must take
into account the physical aspect
of it, and that is why
we don't have a competing theory
to the theory, in fact,
that this is what's happening
to people.
NARRATOR: Dr. Jacques Vallee
questions some abduction
reports, because they were
recalled with hypnosis, but
he's personally seen the
physical effects of alien
encounters.
-There is impact on
the-- on the skin.
They do describe a hot
sensation, but the beam would
also pin them down
and push them.
We don't know how to make
a beam that does that.
NARRATOR: Psychiatric social
worker John Carpenter is
another professional who's dared
to look seriously at
abductions.
-You don't want to
live with that.
It is not a fun experience.
NARRATOR: One of his case is
involved a Nevada ranging
family, whose members have had
unusual encounters for years.
-One came up to my shoulder.
And slender and dark eyed.
MAN (OFFSCREEN): What
color hair?
-No hair.
MAN (OFFSCREEN): Mean eyes?
-Cold.
It looks like a dentists
office.
MAN (OFFSCREEN): And what makes
it looks like a dentists
office?
-Everything comes out
of the walls.
Hoses.
I don't like it here.
MAN (OFFSCREEN): Are you aware
of how old you are?
-I'm 14.
MAN (OFFSCREEN): 14.
NARRATOR: Susan had a reason
for being so certain of her
age at the time.
-Because they went between
my legs and
nobody's ever done that.
MAN (OFFSCREEN): Nobody
had done that before?
-No.
MAN (OFFSCREEN): No.
Since you couldn't move, how
did they manage that?
-I spread my legs.
-There is no doubt in
my mind there is a
definite phenomenon occurring.
Some kind of intervention,
intrusion of some kind of
different type of being, whether
it's dimensional or
extraterrestrial.
Whatever it is, there's nothing
that binds these
people together except the
common amazing reports that
they come up with.
NARRATOR: Carpenter, Mack,
Jacobs, and Hopkins have been
taking their case to their
colleagues, holding seminars
around the country for mental
health professionals, hoping
to foster better understanding
of abductee reports.
The response has been modest,
but encouraging.
Unfortunately there
are no answers to
any of the big questions.
Why is this happening?
What do they want?
Where will it all lead?
-It certainly is a good question
that, why do they
need us if they're
so advanced.
But then why do we need wildlife
to do our research?
Why do we have 2,000 lab rats?
Why don't we just create
our own animals?
There has to be something to do
with our spirit, our soul,
our brains.
Something beyond, maybe,
what they can
manufacture in the lab.
-It seems like they're
interested also in a
relationship with us, in some
kind of joining with us.
-We know infinitely more about
this-- infinitely more about
it than we did 10 years ago.
But we still have major gaps in
our understanding because
we cannot put ourselves in the
minds of an alien intelligence
with alien needs, non-human
needs, and understand why
they're doing, and why they're
choosing, and why they're
following people the way
they seem to be doing.
[music playing]
NARRATOR: Who among us hasn't
heard this cliche?
The universe is so vast, it
would be egotistical of us to
believe we're the only ones.
Like so many time worn
beliefs, this
one misses the point.
The issue isn't whether life
exists elsewhere, but rather,
is that life visiting us, and
if so, for what purpose.
The assumption that UFOs
merely represent
extraterrestrial civilizations,
people like us
who just happen to live on other
planets, may also be
overly simplistic.
The true picture of life in our
universe may be far more
complicated and more wondrous.
-They are describing phenomena
that objects that appear, very
often out of nowhere, disappear
on the spot.
Objects that are changing
shapes,
object that merge together.
If the technology or the
phenomenon can do that, it--
what that tells me is that it is
manipulating time and space
dimensions in ways that are
beyond our science.
And if they can do that,
they can be from
anywhere, any time.
They don't have to be from a
particular planet in outer
space
NARRATOR: Harvard's John Mack
agrees that the aliens may not
be aliens at all.
They may live among us in some
sort of parallel world which
we do not yet understand.
-All of those sources of
information that tell us that
the universe is not the
materially regular, well
ordered machine that we like to
think it is, and that there
are realms of reality that are
far beyond what we can touch
and measure with our restricted
empirical tools.
NARRATOR: For most scientists,
still rooted in the mindset of
the 17th century, such concepts
are preposterous.
If something can't be physically
measured, then it
can't exist, meaning there are
no souls, no human spirit, no
God, no alien worlds.
747s are flying over
the outback of
Australia every day.
And the Aborigines look up, and
none of them have a piece
of one, but they know
what they're seeing.
These things are there, and
the evidence is enormous.
NARRATOR: Proof is whatever it
takes to convince us that
something is true.
On the subject of UFOs, there
is more than enough evidence
to prove that something really
is going on, but none of it
means anything to a person
who simply refuses
to take a fair look.
UFOs have been around
a long time.
Millions of people
over thousands of
years have seen them.
For centuries, they've
been captured in
carvings and drawings.
Today, they're seen
in photos, videos,
films, and radar images.
UFOs can and do affect
our cars,
planes, and other machinery.
Thousands of landing site traces
have been recorded.
Soil has been baked,
burned, irradiated.
Mystical crop formations appear
overnight all over the
world, with changes in the
crops' genetic structure.
Humans who encounter alien
beings report being taken from
their homes, probed, their
memories altered, and they
often carry away marks, scars,
and other physical signs.
Animals are being harvested by
some unseen force, and for
some unknown purpose.
Governments the world over
possess secret files which
declare flat out that UFOs
are real and are here.
If someone is simply unwilling
to consider the possibility of
other life forms, then none
of this means much.
But for the open minded, there
is evidence to pursue.
-I think that this
is a solvable
problem at this point.
We are poised, now, to answer
these fundamental questions.
After half a century of dealing
with this subject, we
are now in a position to
actually solve this mystery.
-If this is some kind of an
alien life form that is coming
here and is doing this, why
isn't it incumbent upon every
one of us to try to understand
more, to try to understand
why, and perhaps even ask of
explanation from our own
government about
their silence?
NARRATOR: Those who choose to
study the genesis of this
phenomenon often pay a high
price, Budd Hopkins' work cost
him a marriage and is held, John
Mack has faced scorn and
ridicule from his colleagues.
Brian O'Leary was ostracized by
his former friends in the
astronaut world.
Linda Howe and others
have been spied upon
by government agents.
Ted Oliphant had to quit his
job as a police officer and
left Alabama.
The price can be high, but
so can the rewards, as we
grudgingly strive to understand
a cosmos that is
far more mysterious than
we ever imagined.
-We're dealing with
extraterrestrial beings, we're
dealing with interdimensional
beings, we're dealing with
phenomena that go in and out
of our physical reality and
are right on the fringes of
our physical reality.
We're dealing with a technology
in which, let's
say, mind is supreme
over matter.
-The animal mutilations
are real.
They happen.
They're reported.
Human abductions
are happening.
They're reported.
We're sitting at a time at a
crossroads as we're going into
this next century where I
believe firmly that the next
big story is going to
be contact from
something else out there.
[music playing]